<p>
EXT. HOTH - ICE GORGE - DUSK

The jagged face of a huge ice wall sits gloomily in the dim twilight of
a Hoth day.  Luke hangs upside down, ankles frozen into icy
stalactites, his extended arms within a foot of the snow floor.  One
side of his face is covered in a dried mask of frozen blood.  He opens
his eyes as a chilling moan of the hideous ice creature echoes off the
gorge walls.  Luke pulls himself up, grabs hold of his ankles, and
futilely tries to unfasten the throngs.
Exhausted, he drops back into his hanging position.  As he hangs there,
he spies his lightsaber lying near a pile of his discarded gear, about
three feet out of reach.
He focuses on the saber and, as his hand strains toward the weapon, he
squeezes his eyes tight in concentration.
Just as the ice creature looms over Luke, the lightsaber jumps into
Luke's hand.
The young warrior instantly ignites his sword, swinging up, and cuts
himself loose from the ice.  He flops to the snow in a heap.  The
startled creature moves back, his giant yellow eyes blinking.  Luke
scrambles to his feet.  He swings his lightsaber and the beast screams
in pain.

EXT. HOTH - ENTRANCE TO ICE GORGE - DUSK

Luke staggers out of the gorge into the dark and snowy twilight.  Weak
and exhausted, he stumbles down a snow bank.

EXT. HOTH - SNOW PLAIN - DUSK

A small, lone figure riding a Tauntaun races through the hostile
vastness of snow and cold.  As it runs, the Tauntaun's legs kick up
large clouds of snow and ice into the snowy air.

EXT. HOTH - OUTSIDE ICE				 HANGAR - DUSK

Artoo stands in the falling snow, beeping worriedly.  Threepio moves
stiffly over to him.

    THREEPIO
You must come along now, Artoo.
There's really nothing more we can
do.  And my joints are freezing up.

Artoo beeps, long and low.

    THREEPIO
Don't say thing like that!  Of
course we'll see Master Luke again.
He'll be quite all right, you'll see.
  (to himself)
Stupid little short-circuit.  He'll
be quite all right.

Threepio turns to go back inside the main hangar as Artoo mournfully
keeps his vigil.</p>

<p>EXT. HOTH - SNOW DRIFT - DUSK

The wind is blowing quite strong now.  Luke struggles to stay upright,
but a blast of freezing snow knocks him over.  He struggles to get up,
but he can't.  The young warrior from Tatooine drags himself a couple
of feet and then collapses.</p>

<p>INT. REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR DECK - ENTRANCE - NIGHT

Princess Leia stands inside the dark entrance to the Rebel base,
waiting for a sign of the two Rebel heroes.  She shivers in the cold
wind as, nearby, Chewie sits with his head in his hands.  In the
background, Artoo and Threepio move through the doors.

A Rebel lieutenant moves to Major Derlin, an officer keeping watch with
the princess.

    LIEUTENANT
Sir, all the patrols are in.
There's still no contact from
Skywalker or Solo.

    THREEPIO
Mistress Leia, Artoo says he's been
quite unable to pick up any signals,
although he does admit that his own
range is far too weak to abandon
all hope.

Leia nods an acknowledgment, but she is lost in thought.

    DERLIN
Your Highness, there's nothing
more we can do tonight.  The shield
doors must be closed.

He turns to the lieutenant.

    DERLIN
Close the doors.

    LIEUTENANT
Yes, sir.

The lieutenant walks away.  Chewie lets out a long, mournful howl,
somewhat like a coyote.  At the same moment, Artoo begins a complex
series of efficient beeps.

    THREEPIO
Artoo says the chances of survival
are seven hundred seventy-five...
to one.

Leia stands praying to herself as the huge metal doors slam across the
entrance of the ice cave.  The loud booms echo throughout the huge
cavern.  Chewie lets out another suffering howl.

    THREEPIO
Actually, Artoo has been known to
make mistakes... from time to time.
Oh, dear, oh, dear.  Don't worry
about Master Luke.  I'm sure he'll
be all right.  He's quite clever,
you know... for a human being.</p>

<p>EXT. HOTH - SNOW DRIFT - DUSK

Luke lies face down in the snow, nearly unconscious.  Slowly he looks
up and sees Ben Kenobi, barely visible through the blowing snow.  It is
hard to tell if Kenobi is real or a hallucination.

    BEN
Luke... Luke.

    LUKE
  (weakly)
Ben?

    BEN
You will go to the Dagobah system.

    LUKE
Dagobah system?

    BEN
There you will learn from Yoda,
the Jedi Master who instructed me.

The image of Ben fades, revealing a lone Tauntaun rider approaching
from the windswept horizon.

    LUKE
  (groaning faintly)
Ben... Ben.

Luke drops into unconsciousness.

Han pulls up and leaps off his mount.  He hurries to his snow-covered
friend, cradling him in his arms.  Han's Tauntaun lets out a low,
pitiful bellow.  But Han's concern is with Luke, and he shakes him
urgently.

    HAN
Luke!  Luke!  Don't do this, Luke.
Come on, give me a sign here.

Luke doesn't respond.  Han begins frantically rubbing and slapping
Luke's unconscious face.  As he starts to lift the youth, Han hears a
rasping sound behind him.  He turns, just in time to see his Tauntaun
stagger and then fall over into the snow.

Han carries Luke to the moaning beast.  Then, with a final groan, the
Tauntaun expires.

    HAN
Not much time.

He pushes Luke's inert form against the belly of the dead beast.

    LUKE
  (moaning)
Ben... Ben...

    HAN
Hang on, kid.

    LUKE
Dagobah system...

Han ignites Luke's saber and cuts the beast from head to toe.  He
quickly tosses it's steaming innards into the snow, then lifts Luke's
inert form and stuffs him inside the carcass.

    HAN
  (reeling from the
   odor)
Whew...

    LUKE
Dagobah...

    HAN
This may smell bad, kid...

    LUKE
  (moaning)
Yoda...

    HAN
...but it will keep you warm...
til I get the shelter built.
  (struggling to get
   Luke inside the
   carcass)
Ooh... I thought they smelled bad
on the outside!

The wind has picked up considerably, making it difficult to move.  Han
removes a pack from the dead creature's back, taking out a shelter
container.  He begins to set up what can only be a pitiful protection
against a bitter Hoth night.
</p>
